							Coursera - Course 3 - Getting and Cleaning Data - Project

							Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set

The project uses 'Human Activity Recognition' database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

Variables defined in the R script to generate Tidy Data Set:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

destFilePath: stores the path of root folder used to store project related data / documents.
projectFileWithPath: stores the name of the data file with path.
unZippedFolderName: stores the name of the folder where the contents of the zip file are extracted.

projectDataSetUrl: stores the URL where the data file is stored.

subjectTrainDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'subject_train.txt' - list of the volunteers selected for generating the training data. The dataset has 7352 observations of 1 variable.
xTrainDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'X_train.txt' - data of observations from 70% of the volunteers selected for generating the training data. The dataset has 7352 observations of 561 variable.
yTrainDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'y_train.txt' - list of activities performed by the volunteers selected for generating the training data. The dataset has 7352 observations of 1 variable.

subjectTestDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'subject_test.txt' - list of the volunteers selected for generating the test data. The dataset has 2947 observations of 1 variable.
xTestDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'X_test.txt' - data of observations from 70% of the volunteers selected for generating the test data. The dataset has 2947 observations of 561 variable.
yTestDataSet: Data Set that stores the data from 'y_test.txt' - list of activities performed by the volunteers selected for generating the test data. The dataset has 2947 observations of 1 variable.

mergedTrainingDataSet: Merged data set by merging subjectTrainDataSet, xTrainDataSet and yTrainDataSet. The dataset has 7352 observations of 563 variable.

mergedTestDataSet: Merged data set by merging subjectTestDataSet, xTestDataSet and yTestDataSet. The dataset has 2947 observations of 563 variable.

mergedTrainingTestDataSet: Merged data set by merging mergedTrainingDataSet and mergedTestDataSet. The dataset has 10299 observations of 563 variable.

meanStdDataSet: Data Set that contains variables indicating Mean and standard deviation (variables containing mean or std in name). 

activityLabels: Data set that stores activity labels. This dataset is used to update activity labels in the final data set.

featureNames: Data set that stores feature names. The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. The dataset has 561 observations. A custom variable 'refColName' is added to this data set by concatinating "V" to V1 variable. This custom variable is used to update the variable names in the final Data set. The Data set is further sanitized by performing following actions:
	- expanded 't' as 'time' for 't' appearing in the begining of the name.
	- expanded 'f' as 'frequency' for 'f' appearing in the begining of the name.
	- replaced '-', '(', ')' and ',' with '.' (dot).


The variable names in 'meanStdDataSet' data set were updated with the labels from featureNames data set.

meanStdTidyData: A new Tidy data set is generated by the following steps:
	- Grouping 'meanStdDataSet' by 'subjectID', 'activityID' variables (columns)
	- summarizing all the variables (mean()) in the data set grouped by 'subjectID', 'activityID' variables (columns)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Data Set Information:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Source:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz(1,2), Davide Anguita(1), Alessandro Ghio(1), Luca Oneto(1) and Xavier Parra(2)
1 - Smartlab - Non-Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova, Genoa (I-16145), Italy. 
2 - CETpD - Technical Research Centre for Dependency Care and Autonomous Living
Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (BarcelonaTech). Vilanova i la Geltrú (08800), Spain
activityrecognition '@' smartlab.ws

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Citation Request:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.